So today, this is sort of a layered look
at the Java deployment options
that are available to you.
You can build a
double-clickable application,
you can build a WebStart application,
or you can build an applet and
deploy it either through a web
browser or through Applet Launcher.
For this talk,
we're going to focus on the
right two-thirds of this chart,
specifically WebStart and applets.
If we focus a little bit
more on applets today,
you see that if you have an applet
that you're trying to deploy,
you have a couple of
options available to you.
You can use Internet Explorer.
You can use any other application
that takes advantage of the
Java embedding framework.
Or you can use Applet Launcher,
which is available in
applications utilities.
Now Internet Explorer and
other applications work atop
the embedding framework,
which ultimately works on top
of sun.applet.appletviewer.
Applet Launcher talks directly
to sun.applet.appletviewer,
and you get a good, basic,
double-clickable Applet Launcher.
So,
how should you code your web page if you
want an applet to show up inside of that?
Well, for us it's pretty easy.
You just use the applet tag.
You know, you go to Sun's tutorial,
read up about how to deploy applets,
how to get applets to show up.
Everything you see on Sun's
website is exactly what you need
to do right now in Mac OS X.
Some things to remember.
Remember that the AWT widgets
have the Aqua look and feel.
Therefore,
it's a really bad thing to hard code
component sizes into your applet.
A Aqua button is not going to
be the same size as a window
button or a motif button.
Furthermore,
if you use some JavaScript to
detect what platform you're on,
know that if you've detected Mac OS X,
you have Java 1.3.1.
You don't have to ask
if there's a plug-in.
You don't have to ask what
browser you're running on.
You can just know that
you're running on Mac OS X.
If you're writing an
applet in a browser today,
you should know that you have pretty
much the same functionality as
you can get out of UserBin Applet
Viewer or the Applet Launcher.
By this, it means that your applet
will get the basic init,
start, stop,
respond to events the way you want it to.
The main addition
First you should know that all outputs,
system.out, system.air,
goes to the console application.
The additional thing is that we support
signed applets inside Internet Explorer.
You can use Netscape or
Internet Explorer-style signing.
If you sign your applet
to work on Windows,
it will work on Mac OS X without
any modification.
Use an RSA-style signature
for your JAR files.
And that is actually the main
functionality that we provide
over and above what you can get
with the basic applet viewer.
Now Java WebStart,
which is something we first
started shipping in Mac OS 10.1,
Java WebStart is an application
as opposed to an applet
deployment technology.
I put it that way because, yes,
you can deploy applets
with Java WebStart.
It's much more powerful than
an applet deployment mechanism.
So I think if you have something that
really needs to be an application,
you should really start taking
a look at Java WebStart.
gives you one-click
launching from the browser.
You click from a JNLP file
link in a web page,
it will launch Java WebStart,
your application will start up,
and all the resources will
start downloading for you.
Scott Adler,
and it's got a dynamic updating
mechanism built into it already.
I call it platform neutral
but not platform ignorant.
By that I mean that you can set
up your WebStart application.
You can configure it
such that on Mac OS X,
if there are some additional
features that you want to provide,
like say you only want to
provide only QuickTime for Java,
where it makes sense, for example.
Well, on Mac OS X and Windows,
you can do that and you can ease
the download burden on your user by
only configuring the applications
so that only those platforms
get those specific resources.
We'll talk briefly about how to do that.
The best advice I can offer you is you
should use WebStart when the browser
and its limitations get in the way.
WebStart will let you read and
write files from the user's disk,
it will let you print,
it will do a lot of the things that an
applet normally just will not let you do.
You can do this from an
unsigned WebStart application,
but you can take advantage of
WebStart's functionality that will
let you ask the user if it's all
right to do these things first.
as opposed to an applet where you just
get a security exception saying no.
Remember that on Mac OS X,
the end-user's desktop is
already ready to go for a
WebStart application deployment.
They don't have to go to any
website and download a package,
download a Java VM.
It's all just there.
You can use it out of the box.
Now, in most deployment situations,
there's no special server
support needed either.
You can just put your JNLP file and
the JAR files up on your web server,
and they will download,
and you're ready to go.
WebStart can download them.
Now,
if you do use Apache on OS X and Puma,
you will need to configure Apache so
that it knows how to send out the
correct MIME type for the JNLP file.
That's being fixed in Jaguar.
You won't have to do anything about that.
And I mentioned here there are optional
deployment tools available from Sun.
You can set up what's
called a download server.
It'll let you do things like,
you can set up things called jar dips,
so you can download only the portions
of the jar files that have changed.
That's all pure Java.
That's all operable from a servlet
which you can install and it'll just
As I mentioned, you can install
Mac OS X-specific resources.
And to do that, it's very easy.
In your JNLP file,
you add another resources tag,
I'm sorry, another resources element,
and it has an attribute
of OS equals Mac OS X.
That's all you need to do.
And in that,
you can add any additional jars,
any additional images,
properties that only apply to Mac OS X,
and so on.
Now, this is just sort of
a bigger picture view.
That attribute corresponds
to the OS.name property.
So if you want to do
this on other platforms,
just know what the OS.name is,
and you can set up your JNLP for just
about any platform you need to deploy on.
An important distinction,
we do not support the
downloading of a JRE.
That's because the Java has already
been installed for you on OS X.
If you try to request a
version that doesn't exist,
you will get an error.
I'm sorry, the user will get an error.
And it'll handle the
situation gracefully,
is what we're trying to say here.
Now with 1.4,
the pre-release that's available today,
We have not updated WebStart or
haven't really done anything to
specifically support that 1.4.
I think by the time Jaguar ships
will be ready to be able to deal
with that switching as needed.
Now remember that in a
WebStart application,
you can also include native libraries.
Those native libraries must be bundled
in a jar file and they must be signed.
Now on Mac OS X,
all your JNI libraries end in .jnilib.
So that's what we will look for.
It has to end in .jnilib for
us to load it as a native
resource for your application.
Okay, right now I want to
bring up Sean Allen and
Jared Kaplan from TechEdence.
We're going to show you,
you've seen some of their
demos in earlier sessions,
and they're going to show you about
how you can use TechEdence with
WebStart and some of the other cooler
features that are available to you.
So we're here from TechEdence to show
you our application authoring tool,
which creates Java applications.
Basically what we can do is
build applications out of
pre-compiled Java objects,
and our engine sort of lets these
applications be a living thing that
can be manipulated easily at runtime
and wired together using JavaScript.
I think you're on the... You're all set.
Go ahead.
Am I live?
Yeah, go ahead.
Okay.
So we're just going to -- the
reason we're here at this session
is because we can publish using
Java WebStart as an option.
So what you're looking at
here is our object browser,
and it basically has a default
template with a window,
and if you click on the window,
you see the properties.
So we have a property editor,
and you can turn down the window and
see the objects below it and so on.
And if we open the window,
we can actually edit the
window in the spatial editor.
So if we go to the scrapbooks,
Magic comes with about 80 sort of
atomic objects that you can use
to build other objects out of.
They support user interface
as well as importing Java code
and web services and media.
And so first off,
maybe we'll just drag out a
couple simple UI elements,
maybe a slider and a couple of buttons.
So as we drop the button
and drag and drop it in,
and the slider as well,
you can see that the application's
actually sort of being built live.
If you go to the instant preview mode,
The buttons are going
to be live right away,
so we can see that they're going to work.
But what we'll do is import
some media really quickly.
If we can grab a
QuickTime movie and drop it in.
We like running Magic on OS X because
we can take advantage of the QuickTime,
the AquaUI,
Java WebStart,
all bundled and ready to go.
So Jared just brought
in a QuickTime movie.
And now to add some functionality easily,
he's going to use the patch tool to
select and patch the slider and the
buttons to properties of the movie.
So as he clicks on the slider,
he can choose the percentage value
of the slider and then control any
object that's on the screen here
so he can control the current time.
And then he's going to hook up the
buttons to start and stop the movie.
[Transcript missing]
So that's sort of showing some
media and some UI elements,
but we wanted to show some web services.
So let's try doing --
bringing in some web services.
Yeah, I think I'll just build a simple
web service application here.
I'll start off just by
creating a new document.
When we create a new document,
we have a bunch of preset
templates that are made.
We'll just start off by creating
a new basic application.
And we get, you can see here,
a new empty template application.
What I want to do is bring in
another type of media here.
It's a web service description file.
It's a WSDL.
And I'm going to bring
in a pretty simple one.
Most of these web services that
we pulled off of X methods,
so they're just standard services
available out there already.
So when I drag in the WSDL file,
you can see it gives me an option to
import it as a web service object.
So I'll select that.
And you can see it shows up
here in the window editor.
Also, in the structure view,
you'll see the web service object here.
And what it does is parses out WSDL file
and pulls out all the methods that
are available in the web service.
And here you can see a get
traffic method and just an
asynchronous result of that service.
And so what we'll do is just
go ahead and bring back up
that user interface scrapbook.
And what I want to do is
bring out a text field.
Now I know that this web service,
what it does is it takes a highway
number and it'll go out and find the
traffic information for that highway.
And so using that patch tool that
Sean was talking about earlier,
I'll just select the text field
and choose to take the text value.
And I'll just connect it right into that
web service into the get traffic method.
And now what I need to do is bring
out another text area that we can
put the results in from that service.
So I'll do that.
Resize this, make it a little bit bigger.
And then patch from that web
service object the result.
And just take that value
and patch it right into the
text value of the text area.
And so now when we go
into the preview mode,
you can see what the
traffic's like on 101.
[Transcript missing]
If we had a network cable,
that was plugged into the...
When we are connected to the
network and that's working,
that's how you do it.
At least you know it's
not a canned demo now.
Our software actually,
sometimes it doesn't
So I guess what -- no,
we don't have that web
service to show you.
I can show you actually a similar thing.
Besides bringing in web services,
we actually -- we can also bring
in just Java code directly,
and it's handled in a
really similar fashion.
So if we had, say, a Java class we wrote,
stuck it in a jar, and it actually,
you know,
could fake it and return a web service,
I could show you that.
But what we have here
is a text-to-speech jar.
So I'll drag that in the same
way that I did the web service.
And when I bring that in,
you see it shows here I can
import it as a Java class.
So I'll do that.
And since this is a JAR file,
we have to specify the actual
class file within the JAR.
You can see here,
similar to the web services,
this just uses reflection
and finds the public methods
available in that Java class.
This class here has the
same method and a stop.
What I'll do is go back to the window.
Instead of patching the
text to that web service,
let's just patch it into
the Java class instead,
because hopefully that
will do something exciting.
And of course,
we don't have the audio hooked
up either on the machine,
so...
[Transcript missing]
We have Java code that we can import.
But really, you guys are all here
to see the WebStart,
and hopefully we can get that to work.
Let me go real quick to the WebStart,
and then if we can get
the network working,
we can show you the web services after.
So this is a game that Matthew created,
sort of a Tetris-like game that
we... This is the obligatory Tetris--
authored Tetris application that
every authoring tool has to make.
And if we bring up the
window object here...
You can see here there's the pretty
complicated looking application,
but if we go ahead and run it,
you can see here we have a...
It actually has some nice sounds,
but you're not going to get to hear them.
So you can see we have a pretty nice
working Tetris application here.
And when you're done authoring
an application in Magic,
what you'll do is go into the publish,
You can see we have different
formats that we can publish in.
Here you see a standalone document,
a Java application.
The Java application will just
publish a standalone JAR file.
But what we're interested in
here today is the WebStart.
I already have the
WebStart application selected.
I can come here and you can see that we
have some properties that we can set up.
This is the information that
just gets put into the JNLP file.
We have a description we can set,
the company information,
and the home page,
which is the link in the
WebStart application,
what will show up for that application,
and an icon file.
Let me actually just go in
and reselect that icon file.
I'm going to just choose
a GIF file for the icon.
And you can specify code base.
What happens when we publish
the WebStart application,
we publish it to the local
file system with a template
HTML file and a JNLP file,
but we also publish a JNLP file and a
template file with setup for whichever,
for a remote code base if you're going
to end up pushing it onto a server.
So I'll go ahead and start with the JNLP
Let's make sure I'm publishing
this to the home folder.
Okay, so now that I have that set up,
I can just go ahead and publish.
And what it's doing while it's
publishing is just going through
the application that you built and
collecting all the class files that was
used in your application and collecting
all the resources and media and
creating a new JAR file out of that.
So while it's publishing,
I'll just mention this is
basically our beta trial version.
It's available if people are
interested in checking it out.
You can go to our website,
which is techadents.com,
and you can download it if you want.
And we have a user forum where you
could even give us feedback if you like.
So here you can see we've published to
a local directory on the file system,
and there's the local
HTML template that we can launch.
And here we have a simple template
that you can modify if you want.
Go ahead and launch.
I was complaining about not knowing
the signer of the application.
Just start it.
And there you have it.
A WebStart application that
was pretty easy to make.
So I think that's about
all we're going to show,
but we're going to be around.
If anyone wants to talk afterwards,
we'll hang out after the session.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
I feel like all you folks
are in push-ups right now,
but I don't think you want to see that.
So right now I want to hand
it over to Scott Adler,
who's going to talk about the
embedding framework and some of the
features of applets and embedding.
So the embedding framework.
The embedding framework is something
we built when we moved to Mac OS X so
that you can actually embed applications
into--embed applets into browsers.
It sits with all the other frameworks.
That's where it is if you want to use
the terminal and look for it or however.
Specifically, built for embedding applets
into Carbon applications.
I'm saying this because we have a lot
of people who are trying to use the
embedding framework for other things that
it wasn't actually built and tested for.
Feel free to try that out,
but what we're building this for is
for embedding applets into browsers.
The main clients are web browsers.
How would you use the embedding API?
If you look inside of there,
there's a whole bunch of
header files and things.
You want to know how you actually
would create your own applet container.
First thing you have to do is
you have to create the Java VM,
because you're going to own the Java VM.
That means you should create one of them.
If you're doing a whole bunch of applets,
you create one, you let each applet run,
and then you get rid of that
when your application quits.
Next is, there's this thing called
the JNI environment.
That is the context that you
have to pass into all these,
to our embedding framework
every time you talk to us.
You have to tell us what is
the environment for this VM,
because we don't own the VM,
you own the VM.
Then you actually create the applet
and you actually will fill out some
structures talking about things
that you've parsed out of the
applet tag because you're a browser,
you've just parsed that applet tag,
and you're going to tell us what to do.
So you create the applet.
Then you actually create a control.
This is the representation
of the screen space that the
applet is going to take up.
It's very well documented
inside of javacontrol.h,
what that createJavaControl does.
That returns you a Carbon control back,
and you use that as a
Carbon control in many ways,
except for the ways that we have to
differ from the way Carbon controls work.
Mostly because Carbon is
cooperatively threaded,
and Java is preemptively threaded.
That leads to many issues when
you make a call in Carbon,
you expect that nothing's going
to happen between when that call
starts and when that call stops.
What actually happens is we
might be painting the whole
time while that's happening,
and we get to some of that.
So during the lifetime of an applet,
first,
we automatically init the applet for you.
You've created it.
It's been inited.
You just have to tell us to start it.
Then you have to move
and clip it together.
These are actually separate calls in
terms of typical control manager calls.
You actually would move and
clip it so that we can all do
this in one atomic operation.
Because, like I said,
we could be preemptively drawing,
and that could stop your
cooperative threads,
and we could just start
blasting to the screen.
If you don't move us and
clip us at the same time,
if you move us, then you clip us,
we're going to draw all over
the place because we haven't
been clipped correctly.
So you have to use this instead
of the control manager APIs.
Instead of calling Draw1Control,
you're going to call DrawJavaControl
because we need a way in,
which you'll see in a second.
And then asynchronous drawing.
This is, again,
the big problem we have in interacting
between these frameworks is you've got,
let's say,
an applet that's drawing an animation.
So you're just drawing
like crazy on Java threads.
You're calling paint over
and over and over again.
The Carbon application decides,
you know what,
we're going to live resize you now.
If we keep painting,
you're not going to be able to tell us,
hey, you're not supposed to be painting
now if we didn't have these APIs.
So you actually stop us from
painting while you're doing
things like live scrolling,
live resizing.
You'll know when the good
places are for us to draw again,
and you'll give a call
to draw Java control.
And then when you're done, you'll say,
OK, I'm done.
Start us back up and
we'll start animating.
And you can actually see this if you
run Internet Explorer and you load
any animations and you just grab
the grow box or something like that.
You'll see sometimes animations
seem to slow down a little bit,
but at least they aren't overdrawing
all portions of the screen.
and then to end of life the applet.
You stop it, you destroy it.
Pretty straightforward.
Then you get rid of the VM.
So, embedding applets, the summary.
So, this summary is a very
interesting summary,
and it'll talk about
some of our features.
And the summary is that the new
Java Internet plug-in should
eliminate the need for all
that stuff I just talked about.
And that's really important to us,
because the fact that
I had two slides on it,
and it's pretty complicated,
and there are a lot of
issues with frameworks,
we don't want you to have to deal
with that as browser vendors.
And so, we're planning on providing an
Internet plug-in that will take
care of almost all the needs
of the embedding framework.
So now we'll talk a little
bit about where we're going.
You've seen this sort of slide before.
The one thing I wanted
to point out is that,
and Scott will talk
about this a little more,
is this double-clickable application
area here has sort of slid in
under WebStart applications,
which means that we're going
to have some good news about
WebStart applications here.
So in terms of applets,
where we're going.
So I talked a little bit
about the Internet plug-in,
and you'll see here that these
are the new pieces to this slide,
to this stack.
And the things we've added is
the Sun Java plug-in code and
the Java Internet plug-in.
And what you'll see is
that Internet Explorer,
the way it exists right now,
it'll use some things using the
embedding framework and some
things using the Internet plug-in,
depending on tags,
and we'll get a little bit more on that.
There's all these Netscape 4.0
compatible plug-in browsers out there,
and they'll all just use the
Internet plug-in and get that for free.
And then there's the other
embedding applications,
and those will still use
the embedding framework,
but we're hoping that everyone
moves over to the Internet plug-in.
And then the fact that Sun's
Java plug-in code that we've taken,
we've put underneath
the embedding framework,
means everyone,
without any modifications,
now get all the new features
of the Internet plug-in.
So there are a bunch of features.
We'll get into that.
Yeah.
So Internet Explorer's applet viewer,
this is what I explained
in this last slide,
will be based on the
Java plug-in applet viewer.
So the thing that most people
use when they get Mac OS X out
of the box is they run IE,
they go to some website, it has a game,
and it runs our embedding framework.
So you will now get the Java plug-in
applet viewer inside of there.
You actually get some good user
feedback when you're loading applets.
There are some things that are drawn
in Java that say loading certain things
or progress bars and stuff like that.
So it's pretty good instead of just
waiting and not knowing what's going on.
There's a lot better signed applet
support inside of the plug-in itself.
And then the biggest new feature
for developers is the Java console.
And this is an optional
thing you can turn on.
It's interactive,
meaning that when you load an applet,
the first time you load
an applet on the browser,
this will pop up if you
have the preference set.
And we don't want users
setting this preference,
so we ship it default off,
and you can set it using
some of our other tools.
And it's an interactive console.
So when it comes up,
all of the thread info,
if you want to find out about it,
if you want to force garbage collection,
if you want to look at details of
what's going on inside your applets,
because it can be kind of confusing.
And since you're not an application,
you don't own this stuff.
The browser owns the VM.
This actually gives you a
window into seeing the VM,
seeing all your stack traces here.
It's pretty neat, and you can see,
we'll show a little bit of it in a demo.
System out and system error go here.
Logging and tracing is
a big feature of this.
You can set log levels on your logging.
You can log different actions,
and then you can set log
levels and see what's going on.
what is outputting and Scott will
show a little more about that.
The Java plug-in settings we're
going to include in Jaguar also.
And this is where you set things
related to this plug-in specifically.
And you see the very
first one is--I mean,
the very second one is
show the Java console.
So that lets you turn off that console.
It'll ship with it off.
But if you need to turn it on,
this is where you find it.
It's gonna be--it's planned to
be an application_utilities.
It lets you set the VM arguments,
so this whole text field here
lets you set things like,
do you happen to know that
you're gonna be shipping this
large intranet application,
so you have to increase the VM heap size,
because Java still has this set limit on
the VM heap so that it doesn't overrun,
take over the whole system,
especially applets.
You don't want a bad applet to show
up and just start allocating memory
and just bring down everything.
And there's a whole
bunch of other things.
There are other panels in there,
and we'll get a little more into that.
The Java Internet plug-in.
We're separating what Sun's plug-in
is from the Internet plug-in.
The Internet plug-in is the Netscape
4.0 style plug-in that we've now wrapped
our embedding framework inside of there.
You don't have to deal with it.
You just deal with this
Netscape 4.0 style plug-in.
So any of these apps,
any of these browsers that support
Netscape 4.0 plug-ins should just work.
It's all based on the 13103
release of the plug-in.
So now we're getting into the
messy world of the Internet.
The thing about the Internet is
that when the Internet started,
it started this thing called NetTime,
that like every week was like
a year or something like that.
And so the Internet's really old now.
And we're suffering from that because
the Internet went through all this
stuff of how do you use applets?
Well, you use the applet tag.
Then along came the Java plug-in,
and you had to use the embed
tag and the object tag.
And then this big company from
Seattle came along and said,
"We don't want that to work
anymore," so Sun made it work
with the applet tag again.
So there's this whole
confusion of what's out there.
And there's web pages that do everything,
all these different things.
So people ask me,
"What are we supposed to
do?" And so we're encouraging
people to use the applet tag.
That hopefully will be
the future of applets.
Again, we're not defining this.
We're trying to follow what other
people are doing and make sure that
you guys can deploy where you need to.
Some older browsers,
they actually don't use the
plug-in for the applet tag.
So on our platform,
like Internet Explorer,
they take the applet tag and
they use the embedding framework.
In the future,
hopefully they'll change this and
they'll use our Internet plug-in,
but they may not.
And if they're not using
the Internet plug-in,
they own the VM.
It's up to them to do things like
get those VM parameter options and
things like that from the plug-in.
What we're really hoping is that all the
browser vendors move their applet tag
to actually use the correct MIME type
and just hand this off to the plug-in.
And then it'll be a consistent
user interface based,
whether you use the applet
tag or the embed tag.
Now, if you want to force
people to use the plug-in,
you can use the object
and the embed tags.
And that obviously will go through
the browser and load a plug-in for
whatever MIME type you specify.
And to do this, it actually was a pretty
hard thing for people to do.
You don't want to go
type in all your code.
So Sun provides a thing called the
HTML converter that will convert
old applet tags into this new
object and embed tag framework.
Now, it's confusing for me to say the
new object and embed tag framework
because it was new a year ago or so,
and it's already going a little bit out
of style because they're encouraging
people to move back to applet.
So even on Windows,
it's very confusing because
if you're on older browsers,
the plug-in won't work
with the applet tag,
and on newer browsers it will.
So it's kind of a confusing thing,
but we're encouraging people
to use the applet tag.
If you want to use the
object and the embed tag,
you can.
So just to give you a little
overview of where this is,
there's browsers and tags
and what different things
work in different browsers.
On Mac OS X, we have IE 5.1,
and with Appletag,
it uses the Java embedding framework.
Other--if you want to get to the plug-in,
you use the object tag.
Netscape and Mozilla.
The applet tag, by default,
gets pushed the same way as the embed
tag does with a built-in MIME type
of application X Java applet.
So that just works with our plug-in.
And then the other tags,
they look at the embed tag and
they ignore the object tag,
they look at the embed tag.
Opera is very similar
to the way IE works.
This is just sort of sampling
of browsers that I've found.
Java embedding framework
they use for the applet tag.
They're still working
on their support there,
which is one of the reasons
why we're trying to get the
Internet plug-in to work,
because not all developers
have an easy time with this.
And then they use the object tag.
And then there's the
latest IE on Windows,
which the applet tag goes to, who knows,
goes to the 1.1 VM if
the user's downloaded it.
If they set a preference,
they could go to the plug-in.
It depends on what the
user might have done.
So it's not totally sure
what will happen there.
And then if you use the object tag,
you can specify VM versions
and things like that.
So it's very similar to the way the
object tag works on IE5 on the Mac.
So now I want to show a little
bit of the Java plug-in.
So if we can go to the
second machine here.
Oh, I do it.
Aha.
There we go.
Cool.
So this is Jaguar with the,
I think it's the same as
what we shipped to you guys.
And I've got a bunch of browsers on here.
And I'm going to show browsers other
than Internet Explorer for a change.
And so let's start by looking at Opera.
I've already got some of these loaded.
So in Opera,
I'm going to look at this one.
So this is Opera.
This I just downloaded
from their website.
I didn't make any changes
to their application.
I, it just uses the Internet plug-in.
This actually has,
I don't know if you can read the,
I don't know if you can read the URL,
but it's an embed tag.
It's actually being pulled down over
the Internet from my home server.
And it's just working.
And that's what we expect
to happen with this.
It even has,
let's see if this loops around again.
It should have interactivity.
Yeah.
So this applet has some
mouse overs and things.
So if I mouse over here,
it pauses and I can click on it.
And if I'm actually, yeah, I'm connected.
That's cool.
So I got to the Apple page.
So it's got a couple things in here that,
things you expect to see in applets.
I specified, this is just a little
customizable applet.
So I decided it would be nice
to have it snow in Florida where
the shuttle launches.
So you can do that.
So, so that's just an example of the
plug-in working right here in,
in Opera.
So an interesting thing I downloaded the
other day is this program called Chimera,
which is called Navigator,
but the project is Chimera.
And it's taking Mozilla's
rendering engine and wrapping it
inside of a Cocoa environment.
So it's, it's basically Mozilla,
but using Cocoa.
So this is kind of cool because this is,
again, they just, this is version 2.4,
24.
I'm not sure how the
version numbers work,
but they,
they released this last week sometime.
And this was their first release that
actually worked with Netscape plug-ins.
And I just loaded up
this one applet that has,
you know, it's just a little display
applet and it just worked here.
So it was, it was pretty cool to
see that that works.
This is, again,
I didn't talk to the developers.
I just went to their website,
downloaded it, tried it out.
So that's a little applet there.
We can, and then there's one other one.
Let's see.
And then in Mozilla itself,
Let's see, Mozilla, make a new... Yikes.
Okay.
So in Mozilla here,
I'll just go to my site.
[Transcript missing]
Let's see.
Okay, so I play here and I...
For those video game diehards out there,
you'll notice all the differences
between this and the real game.
It's pretty cool.
This is all running on Jaguar.
These aren't applications
we touched at all.
With Mozilla,
I just wanted to point out that the guys
at Netscape are actually working on a
really good implementation of the plug-in
on top of our embedding framework.
Some of the good things there is
that they're doing more than you can
do inside of the Netscape or OAPX.
I just wanted to point out really
quickly that we do have the Java console
running here in the background.
I just hid that out of this browser,
but you could look at things
in the console if you want.
All the dumps are going there.
You could print out your entire
thread list if you want here,
and there's nothing running,
so that's not that exciting.
You can look at a lot of stuff.
We could actually look at our memory
usage when we're not running it all,
and I think that's M.
Here we've got some stuff sitting around
because they haven't shut down the VM.
That's about it for the demos.
If we can go back to slides,
which I still do,
and I'll bring it back to Scott.
Thank you.
Thanks, Scott.
All right,
now I'm going to spend a little bit
of time talking about some of the
additional new features in the plug-in.
And the first of these is jar caching.
Now, if you've used this on Windows,
you know that jar caching lets you
store jar files from your applet on
the user's hard drive for later use.
It's very similar to the jar
caching that we had in the older
version of MRJ from the OS 9 days.
You may need to modify your
HTML to get it to work.
I say may because if you've
already done it on Windows,
you shouldn't have to
do anything on the Mac.
The cache is stored on a per-user
basis in their home directory
and library cache is Java.
The reason we did that is to make it so
that the user can go in there and clean
up after the applets after a while,
if necessary.
Let's talk a little bit about the
HTML changes that you may need to make.
First of all,
if you want to turn on the JAR cache,
you have to have a param in your
applet that says cache option
and with the value of plug-in.
You must have this or you
will not get JAR caching.
The next thing, you need to specify the
jars that you want cached.
That's just a comma-separated list.
Param name is cache_archive.
And finally, an optional tag.
Actually, I think I reversed this.
If you want caching,
you need cache archive.
The cache version param, that's optional.
And what you do with the cache version
is that you have a list of version
specifiers that map one for one with
everything in the cache archive.
If they don't match one for one,
you'll get an error in the applet viewer.
A little bit more about
the cache version.
You don't have to modify your JAR file.
All you're doing is you're modifying your
HTML so that you can tell the browser,
the version that I think that I have
on the server is this specific version.
If that's newer than what's
on the user's machine,
the Apple viewer will download it.
If you don't specify the cast version,
by default you use a head request.
I'm sorry,
the Apple viewer will use a head request
and do an if-modified-since lookup.
That's not a big deal,
but that's some network overhead.
So if you want to cut down
on the network traffic,
use the cache version,
and that'll save you some trouble.
And note that the jars that you specify
in the cache archivers are going to be
searched first as far as the search path,
as the class path goes.
Use the cache archive first and then
we use what's in the archive tag.
Now, we know that 1.4 is out.
Jar caching changed a little bit in 1.4,
and we're going to be
moving to this eventually,
but I want to let you know what
the differences are right now.
The jars in the archive
parameter are not cached.
You must use the cache archive
param to get the caching to work.
There's an additional parameter
called cache version EX.
I won't go into what that does,
but just know that we don't support it.
We'll ignore it.
It won't give you an error,
but we don't support it in 1.3.1.
We don't have JAR indexing.
That's, again, a 1.4 feature.
If you use the cache archive and
the cache version params now,
that'll be your best compatibility
route for 1.4 when we're ready to
support the 1.4 caching mechanism.
Talk a little bit about
HTTPS connections.
There's no new bug here because it
really hasn't changed since Puma.
Again,
if you want to make a secure connection,
just make a HTTPS URL and ask
for a URL connection out of it.
This is exactly the same thing
that you do right now in 10.1.
No additional initialization is needed.
We set up JSSE for you
already in the browser.
Just go ahead and ask for a
connection and you'll get it.
As I mentioned,
support is provided by JSSE.
And JSSE is an interesting
package in itself,
and that's why I put this URL up here.
You get a lot of good information
about where it stores its
certificates and other properties
that apply to using JSSE.
Now,
as far as certificates go with HTTPS,
JSSC provides you a number
of certificates by default.
These are a lot of CAs.
They're just a basic set of certificate
authorities that are provided for you.
If you need to add your own,
go to Library, Java Home, Lib Security,
CACerts,
and you'll need to use the key tool
to import those into that file.
As you can imagine, that's not the most
friendly way to do things.
We're working on a better mechanism.
We don't have anything we
can talk about right now,
but we are looking into doing this,
making this better.
Talk about sign jar support.
There are a few new things here.
Not a lot, but a few.
SSL certificates are not the
same as sign jar certificates.
They're similar in nature,
but they're used in different ways.
Again, sign jars continue to work
exactly like they did in 10.1.
There's no change to the
support that we had before.
The slight difference is that
if the user decides they want
to always trust that file,
that jar file,
we're going to store it now
in your preferences folder
with a more readable name,
Java plug-in certificates 131.
You can also take a look at the
JAR certificates that have been
accepted in the Settings application.
Basically,
it will give a list of all the people
that sent you a sign jar certificate
so you can keep track of what you've
trusted and what you need to pay
attention to when you're running applets.
Okay, switching gears very quickly since
I'm running out of time here.
Java WebStart today
I want to talk a little bit
about how it works today.
You go to a website that's
got a JNLP link on it.
Click on the link.
We download the JNLP file.
It gets fed through Java WebStart,
and you get your
Java WebStart application up and running.
Well, here's where we're going
with Java WebStart.
Again,
you'll have the link in your web browser.
You'll click on the link.
We'll download to a JNLP file.
We're going to provide the
ability to make a double-clickable
application out of that JNLP file.
And, once you make that
double-clickable application,
the next time the user double-clicks or
clicks on that link in the web browser,
we'll go straight to that application.
We won't have
Java WebStart involved at all.
Talk a little bit about what's
going on here in detail.
A user will be able to create a
double-clickable application from
the downloaded WebStart application.
So if you go into Java WebStart and you
look at the Cached Application panel,
you'll be able to select an application,
go up into the menu and
choose Create Application.
You'll get a double-clickable application
wherever the user wants to save it.
Now this is similar in
functionality to what's called
the Local Install mechanism,
what WebStart calls Local Install.
This is standard across platforms.
We've chosen to implement this as
a double-clickable application.
And by doing it that way,
we get some nice benefits that I'll talk
about when I show you a demonstration.
It's done automatically via WebStart.
By default, it's set up to ask the user
if they want to do this,
if they've run the application twice.
I'll show you an example
of that in a moment.
We'll use your WebStart icon.
Remember that you have to specify,
or you can specify,
a GIF or JPEG as part of your
JNLP specification for your application.
We'll take that, download it,
turn it into a .icns file,
and use that as the application's icon.
And finally,
it is a double-clickable application,
but it's a very small application.
The actual resources for that
application are downloaded
into the user's WebStart cache,
and it's stored on a
per-user basis in the cache.
Now, as I said,
it's a double-clickable application,
so you'll be able to customize this.
That means it's got a plist.
That means it's got some
properties that you can set.
So for those of you that
have thought in the past,
well, how am I going to, you know,
there's an ambiguity in
the JLP specification about
when properties get set.
Well,
by making a double-clickable application,
you'll be able to set some of
those properties at launch time.
And you'll find out a lot more
about customizing applications
in the next session.
That's over in room
J when we're done here.
All right,
right now I'm going to show you
a demonstration of some of these
features that I just talked about.
And in particular, the application,
or I'm sorry,
the applet that I'm going to show here
If you were at WWDC last year,
you saw a demonstration of
the Java speech framework.
I'm going to write an applet that
uses that speech framework just as a
demonstration to show off some features.
If you know anything
about the text-to-speech,
that's native code.
If you're going to use native
code or JDIRECT in your applet,
you need to sign that applet.
This is going to show you an example of
a signed applet and how that would appear
to the end user and some things that
you can look at yourself as a developer.
I'm also going to demonstrate
JAR caching in this example as well.
The reason why you would
do that is in this case,
you see I've turned on the cache with
the cache option in the first param.
I've got an archive
here of the speech demo.
That's what I'm going
to build in my applet.
The last thing is the
javaspeechframework.jar.
That's the speech framework jar that you
can download off of connect.apple.com.
That comes out to about a 750K JAR file.
A lot of users,
DSL isn't that widespread and you
still have a lot of 56K connections.
That's a pretty good chunk of
code to be downloading every time.
That's the kind of thing that
makes sense to cache on the
user's machine for later use.
There's a lot of things
that you can do with this.
I'm going to show you how to do this.
I'm
This is the Jaguar version
of Project Builder,
and I've added a shell
script at the end that throws
everything into one directory,
and it's going to assign
the two jar files,
one that I'm creating and one
that I'm using as a library.
And I've just built a, I don't
Let's move that up here so you
can see it a little bit better.
And I've just built a simple file of
keys that I used to sign the jar file.
So I'm going to go ahead and build
[Transcript missing]
So what I've done is I've put my
applet on my homepage.mac website.
And now you can see that
I've signed the jar file.
And now we've got a slightly
different dialogue than we,
that we used to have in PUMA.
And it's a little bit friendlier,
a little easier to read.
You can look at the details of
the certificate if you need to.
Who signed it?
Where it came from?
What organization?
Things like that.
For this particular example,
I'm going to say grant this session.
You know, nice and simple,
we have... We have no sound.
No sound.
Well, you're going to have to take my
word for it that this speaks,
because this is speaking
in the demonstrations here.
Volume's up.
I'm not sure what's going on.
Now we've tried this.
I know we've tried this.
There you go.
I sure like being inside
this fancy computer.
There you go.
Just to prove that it does indeed work.
Thank you.
Okay, now,
I'm also going to show you some
features of the Java console.
Since it came up pretty quickly,
we're going to reload this applet
and show you some things about it.
So first of all,
I'm going to set the log level to 2,
and we're going to get some basic
and networking-related messages.
So I'm going to refresh the applet.
Now you see that we're getting
a trace of the what's going on
[Transcript missing]
Typically,
this will help you figure out if
something goes wrong in your init
method or in your applet start,
you'll be able to figure out when,
what's being called,
so you know where the problem
is actually coming into play.
And here,
this level of logging also tells you
what's going on with the JAR cache.
So as you see that I've asked to try
to archive Java Speech Framework.
We're going to see if it's up to date.
And I didn't use the
cache version option,
so we're going to look at the timestamp.
The last modified, it hasn't changed.
I put it up there a few days ago
and I haven't changed it since.
And we've run it on this machine once,
so it's already in the
cache and it's up to date.
So you've got lots of good information
about what's going on in the cache.
So now,
I'm going to take the level up to three.
Now I'll get some security
information as well.
So I'm going to do a refresh.
And you can see that we've got tons
of information about security and
certificates and things that are,
you know,
shows you where the
comparisons are going on,
lets you look at the details
of the certificates that
are being compared against.
Okay, I'm going to very quickly show you
Java WebStart since that's one of the
interesting things that we've done here.
Okay.
So a friend of mine comes along and says,
hey,
I got this cool tool called SmartCVS.
And it's a graphical CVS client.
And here's the link down here, SmartCVS.
We're going to download it.
And, bad example,
So as you can see,
I've already run SmartCVS twice and we've
created a desktop application for it.
And it's gone right into,
it's created the application.
[Transcript missing]
All right, we'll try this one more time.
Okay, we didn't find an application,
so we're going to
launch it the usual way.
WebStart wants unlimited access,
so I'll say yes and go ahead.
We'll cancel out of that.
Okay, now tomorrow I come along
and I need to run it again,
so I'll click on a link
and we'll download it.
And WebStart's going to say, "Hey,
you've run this twice.
Do you want me to create an
application for you?" So I'll say yes.
And I'm going to put it on the desktop.
Let's call it SmartCBS Beta.
[Transcript missing]
Cancel that and click all that.
And I can just click on that and
launch it like a regular application.
It's also got a plist I can
modify so I can start working
around with that as well.
And that's it for Java WebStart.
So to sum up, which should you choose,
Applets or WebStart?
Well, it's only for you to decide.
We hope we've given you enough
information to start figuring out for
yourself what's the right thing to do.
If you're working on a web browser,
we want you to support
the Java Internet plug-in.
And finally,
here are the remaining Java sessions.
If you head over to
Room J when we're done here,
you can look into tailoring
Java applications.
Good things to see there.
You see all the details about
the other remaining sessions.
For more information,
if you want WebStart information,
you can start at our page
on developer.apple.com.
I'll bring this page up again
for Q&A at the Q&A session.
How to get documentation.
and you've seen all these before as well.
A man to talk to is Alan Samuel as
always for any non-technical or
business-related information.